Problem A: Spreadsheet Calculator

A spreadsheet is a rectangular array of cells. Cells contain data or  
expressions that can be evaluated to obtain data. A “simple” spreadsheet is  
one in which data are integers and expressions are mixed sums and  
differences of integers and cell references. For any expression, if each  
cell that is referenced contains an integer, then the expression can be  
replaced by the integer to which the expression evaluates. You are to write  
a program which evaluates simple spreadsheets.

Input

Input consists of a sequence of simple spreadsheets. Each spreadsheet begins  
with a line specifying the number of rows and the number of columns. No  
spreadsheet contains more than 20 rows or 10 columns. Rows are labeled by  
capital letters A through T. Columns are labeled by decimal digits 0 through  
9. Therefore, the cell in the first row and first column is referenced as  
A0; the cell in the twentieth row and fifth column is referenced as T4.

Following the specification of the number of rows and columns is one line of  
data for each cell, presented in row-major order. (That is, all cells for  
the first row come first, followed by all cells for the second row, etc.)  
Each cell initially contains a signed integer value or an expression  
involving unsigned integer constants, cell references, and the operators +  
(addition) and – (subtraction). If a cell initially contains a signed  
integer, the corresponding input line will begin with an optional minus sign  
followed by one or more decimal digits. If a cell initially contains an  
expression, its input line will contain one or more cell references or  
unsigned integer constants separated from each other by + and – signs. Such  
a line must begin with a cell reference. No expression contains more than 75  
characters. No line of input contains leading blanks. No expression contains  
any embedded blanks. However, any line may contain trailing blanks.

The end of the sequence of spreadsheets is marked by a line specifying 0  
rows and 0 columns.

Output

For each spreadsheet in the input, you are to determine the value of each  
expression and display the resulting spreadsheet as a rectangular array of  
numbers with the rows and columns appropriately labeled. In each display,  
all numbers for a column must appear right-justified and aligned with the  
column label. Operators are evaluated left to right in each expression;  
values in cells are always less than 10000 in absolute value. Since  
expressions may reference cells that themselves contain expressions, the  
order in which cells are evaluated is dependent on the expressions  
themselves.

If one or more cells in a spreadsheet contain expressions with circular  
references, then the output for that spreadsheet should contain only a list  
of the unevaluated cells in row-major order, one per line, with each line  
containing the cell label, a colon, a blank, and the cell’s original  
expression.

A blank line should appear following the output for each spreadsheet.



Problem B: Getting in Line

Computer networking requires that the computers in the network be linked.  
This problem considers a “linear” network in which the computers are chained  
together so that each is connected to exactly two others except for the two  
computers on the ends of the chain which are connected to only one other  
computer. A picture is shown below. Here the computers are the black dots  
and their locations in the network are identified by planar coordinates  
(relative to a coordinate system not shown in the picture). Distances  
between linked computers in the network are shown in feet.


For various reasons it is desirable to minimize the length of cable used.  
Your problem is to determine how the computers should be connected into such  
a chain to minimize the total amount of cable needed. In the installation  
being constructed, the cabling will run beneath the floor, so the amount of  
cable used to join 2 adjacent computers on the network will be equal to the  
distance between the computers plus 16 additional feet of cable to connect  
from the floor to the computers and provide some slack for ease of  
installation.

The picture below shows the optimal way of connecting the computers shown  
above, and the total length of cable required for this configuration is  
(4+16)+ (5+16) + (5.83+16) + (11.18+16) = 90.01 feet.  



Input

The input file will consist of a series of data sets. Each data set will  
begin with a line consisting of a single number indicating the number of  
computers in a network. Each network has at least 2 and at most 8 computers.  
A value of 0 for the number of computers indicates the end of input. After  
the initial line in a data set specifying the number of computers in a  
network, each additional line in the data set will give the coordinates of a  
computer in the network. These coordinates will be integers in the range 0  
to 150. No two computers are at identical locations and each computer will  
be listed once.

Output

The output for each network should include a line which tells the number of  
the network (as determined by its position in the input data), and one line  
for each length of cable to be cut to connect each adjacent pair of  
computers in the network. The final line should be a sentence indicating the  
total amount of cable used. In listing the lengths of cable to be cut,  
traverse the network from one end to the other. (It makes no difference at  
which end you start.) Use a format similar to the one shown in the sample  
output, with a line of asterisks separating output for different networks  
and with distances in feet printed to 2 decimal places.



Problem C: Radio Direction Finder

A boat with a directional antenna can determine its present position with  
the help of readings from local beacons. Each beacon is located at a known  
position and emits a unique signal. When a boat detects a signal, it rotates  
its antenna until the signal is at maximal strength. This gives a relative  
bearing to the position of the beacon. Given a previous beacon reading (the  
time, the relative bearing, and the position of the beacon), a new beacon  
reading is usually sufficient to determine the boat’s present position. You  
are to write a program to determine, when possible, boat positions from  
pairs of beacon readings.  

For this problem, the positions of beacons and boats are relative to a  
rectangular coordinate system. The positive x-axis points east; the positive  
y-axis points north. The course is the direction of travel of the boat and  
is measured in degrees clockwise from north. That is, north is 0°, east is  
90°, south is 180°, and west is 270°. The relative bearing of a beacon is  
given in degrees clockwise relative to the course of the boat. A boat’s  
antenna cannot indicate on which side the beacon is located. A relative  
bearing of 90° means that the beacon is toward 90° or 270°.



Input

The first line of input is an integer specifying the number of beacons (at  
most 30). Following that is a line for each beacon. Each of those lines  
begins with the beacon’s name (a string of 20 or fewer alphabetic  
characters), the x-coordinate of its position, and the y-coordinate of its  
position. These fields are single-space separated.

Coming after the lines of beacon information is an integer specifying a  
number of boat scenarios to follow. A boat scenario consists of three lines,  
one for velocity and two for beacon readings.  

Data on input line       Meaning of data
course speed             the boat’s course, the speed at which it is  
                           traveling
time#1 name#1 angle#1    time of first beacon reading, name of first  
                           beacon, relative bearing of first beacon
time#2 name#2 angle#2    time of second reading, name of second beacon,  
                           relative bearing of second beacon

All times are given in minutes since midnight measured over a single 24-hour  
period. The speed is the distance (in units matching those on the  
rectangular coordinate system) over time. The second line of a scenario  
gives the first beacon reading as the time of the reading (an integer), the  
name of the beacon, and the angle of the reading as measured from the boat’s  
course. These 3 fields have single space separators. The third line gives  
the second beacon reading. The time for that reading will always be at least  
as large as the time for the first reading.  


Output

For each scenario, your program should print the scenario number (Scenario  
1, Scenario 2, etc.) and a message indicating the position (rounded to 2  
decimal places) of the boat as of the time of the second beacon reading. If  
it is impossible to determine the position of the boat, the message should  
say “Position cannot be determined.” Sample input and corresponding correct  
output are shown below.



Problem D: Moth Eradication

Entomologists in the Northeast have set out traps to determine the influx of  
Jolliet moths into the area. They plan to study eradication programs that  
have some potential to control the spread of the moth population.
The study calls for organizing the traps in which moths have been caught  
into compact regions, which will then be used to test each eradication  
program. A region is defined as the polygon with the minimum length  
perimeter that can enclose all traps within that region. For example, the  
traps (represented by dots) of a particular region and its associated  
polygon are illustrated below.
                     
You must write a program that can take as input the locations of traps in a  
region and output the locations of traps that lie on the perimeter of the  
region as well as the length of the perimeter.  


Input
The input file will contain records of data for several regions. The first  
line of each record contains the number (an integer) of traps for that  
region. Subsequent lines of the record contain 2 real numbers that are the  
x- and y-coordinates of the trap locations. Data within a single record will  
not be duplicated. End of input is indicated by a region with 0 traps.


Output
Output for a single region is displayed on at least 3 lines:
First line:    The number of the region. (The first record corresponds  
               to region #1, the second to region #2, etc.)
Next line(s):  A listing of all the points that appear on the perimeter  
               of the region. The points must be identified in the  
               standard form “(x-coordinate,y-coordinate)” rounded to a  
               single decimal place. The starting point for this listing  
               is irrelevant, but the listing must be oriented clockwise  
               and begin and end with the same point. For collinear  
               points, any order which describes the minimum length  
               perimeter is acceptable.
Last line:     The length of the perimeter of the region rounded to 2  
               decimal places.
One blank line must separate output from consecutive input records.
A sample input file with records for 3 regions followed by correct output  
for the sample input is shown on the reverse.



Problem E: Department of Redundancy Department

When designing tables for a relational database, a functional dependency  
(FD) is used to express the relationship between the different fields. A  
functional dependency is concerned with the relationship of values of one  
set of fields to those of another set of fields. The notation X->Y is used  
to denote that when supplied values to the field(s) in set X, the assigned  
value for each field in set Y can be determined. For example, if a database  
table is to contain fields for the social security number (S), name (N),  
address (A), and phone (P) and each person has been assigned a unique value  
for S, the S field functionally determines the N, A and P fields. This is  
written as S->NAP.

Develop a program that will identify each redundant FD in each input group  
of FDs. An FD is redundant if it can be derived using other FDs in the  
group. For example, if the group contains the FDs A->B, B->C, and A->C, then  
the third FD is redundant since the field set C can be derived using the  
first two. (The A fields determine values for the B fields, which in turn  
determine values for the fields in C.) In the group A->B, B->C, C->A, A->C,  
C->B, and B->A, all the FDs are redundant.

Input

The input file contains an arbitrary number of groups of FDs. Each group is  
preceded by a line containing an integer no larger than 100 specifying the  
number of FDs in that group. A group with zero FDs indicates the end of the  
input. Each FD in the group appears on a separate line containing two non-
empty lists of field names separated by the characters - and >. The lists of  
field names contain only uppercase alphabetic characters. Functional  
dependency lines contain no blanks or tabs. There are no trivially redundant  
FDs (for example, A->A). For identification purposes, groups are numbered  
sequentially, starting with 1; the FDs are also numbered sequentially,  
starting with 1 in each group.

Output

For each group, in order, your program must identify the group, each  
redundant FD in the group, and a sequence of the other FDs in the group  
which were used to determine the indicated FD is redundant. If more than one  
sequence of FDs can be used to show another FD is redundant, any such  
sequence is acceptable, even if it is not the shortest proof sequence. Each  
FD in an acceptable proof sequence must, however, be necessary. If a group  
of FDs contains no redundancy, display No redundant FDs.



Problem F: Othello

Othello is a game played by two people on an 8 x 8 board, using disks that  
are white on one side and black on the other. One player places disks with  
the white side up and the other player places disks with the black side up.  
The players alternate placing one disk on an unoccupied space on the board.  
In placing a disk, the player must bracket at least one of the other color  
disks. Disks are bracketed if they are in a straight line horizontally,  
vertically, or diagonally, with a disk of the current player’s color at each  
end of the line. When a move is made, all the disks that were bracketed are  
changed to the color of the player making the move. (It is possible that  
disks will be bracketed across more than one line in a single move.)
                                                   
Write a program to read a series of Othello games. The first line of the  
input is the number of games to be processed. Each game consists of a board  
configuration followed by a list of commands. The board configuration  
consists of 9 lines. The first 8 specify the current state of the board.  
Each of these 8 lines contains 8 characters, and each of these characters  
will be one of the following:
    ‘-’ indicating an unoccupied square
    ‘B’ indicating a square occupied by a black disk
    ‘W’ indicating a square occupied by a white disk
The ninth line is either a ‘B’ or a ‘W’ to indicate which is the current  
player. You may assume that the data is legally formatted.

The commands are to list all possible moves for the current player, make a  
move, or quit the current game. There is one command per line with no blanks  
in the input. Commands are formatted as follows:

List all possible moves for the current player. The command is an ‘L’ in  
the first column of the line. The program should go through the board and  
print all legal moves for the current player in the format (x,y) where x  
represents the row of the legal move and y represents its column. These  
moves should be printed in row major order which means:
      1) all legal moves in row number i will be printed before any legal  
         move in row number j if j is greater than i  
and   2) if there is more than one legal move in row number i, the moves  
         will be printed in ascending order based on column number.
        All legal moves should be put on one line. If there is no legal move  
because it is impossible for the current player to bracket any pieces,  
the program should print the message “No legal move.”

Make a move. The command is an ‘M’ in the first column of the line,  
followed by 2 digits in the second and third column of the line. The  
digits are the row and the column of the space to place the piece of the  
current player’s color, unless the current player has no legal move. If  
the current player has no legal move, the current player is first changed  
to the other player and the move will be the move of the new current  
player. You may assume that the move is then legal. You should record the  
changes to the board, including adding the new piece and changing the  
color of all bracketed pieces. At the end of the move, print the number  
of pieces of each color on the board in the format “Black - xx  White -  
yy” where xx is the number of black pieces on the board and yy is the  
number of white pieces on the board. After a move, the current player  
will be changed to the player that did not move.

Quit the current game. The command will be a ‘Q’ in the first column of the  
line. At this point, print the final board configuration using the same  
format as was used in the input. This terminates input for the current  
game.

You may assume that the commands will be syntactically correct. Put one  
blank line between output from separate games and no blank lines anywhere  
else in the output.



Problem G: Urban Elevations

An elevation of a collection of buildings is an orthogonal projection of the  
buildings onto a vertical plane. An external elevation of a city would show  
the skyline and the faces of the “visible” buildings of the city as viewed  
from outside the city from a certain direction. A southern elevation shows  
no sides; it shows the perfectly rectangular faces of buildings or parts of  
faces of buildings not obstructed on the south by taller buildings. For this  
problem, you must write a program that determines which buildings of a city  
are visible in a southern elevation.

For simplicity, assume all the buildings for the elevation are perfect  
rectangular solids, each with two sides that run directly east-west and two  
running directly north-south. Your program will find the buildings that  
appear in a southern elevation based on knowing the positions and heights of  
each city building. That data can be illustrated by a map of the city as in  
the diagram on the left below. The southern elevation for that city is  
illustrated in the diagram on the right.




Input
Input for your program consists of the numeric description of maps of  
several cities. The first line of each map contains the number of buildings  
in the city (a non-negative integer less than 101). Each subsequent line of  
a map contains data for a single building — 5 real numbers separated by  
spaces in the following order:

x-coordinate of the southwest corner
y-coordinate of the southwest corner
width of the building (length of the south side)
depth of the building (length of the west side)
height of the building  

Each map is oriented on a rectangular coordinate system so that the positive  
x-axis points east and the positive y-axis points north. Assume that all  
input for each map corresponds to a legitimate map (the number of buildings  
is the same as the number of subsequent lines of input for the map; no two  
buildings in a single map overlap). Input is terminated by the number 0  
representing a map with no buildings.


Output
Buildings are numbered according to where their data lines appear in the  
map’s input data — building #1 corresponding to the first line of building  
data, building #2 data to the next line, and building #n to the nth line of  
building data for that map. (Buildings on subsequent maps also begin their  
numbering with 1.)
For each map, output begins with line identifying the map (map #1, map #2,  
etc.) On the next line the numbers of the visible buildings as they appear  
in the southern elevation, ordered south-to-north, west-to-east. This means  
that if building n and building m are visible buildings and if the southwest  
corner of building n is west of the southwest corner of building m, then  
number n is printed before number m. If building n and building m have the  
same x-coordinate for their southwest corners and if building n is south of  
building m, then the number n is printed before the number m. For this  
program, a building is considered visible whenever the part of its southern  
face that appears in the elevation has strictly positive area. One blank  
line must separate output from consecutive input records.

.
